# RFC7230

## MUST

`MUST`, `MUST NOT`, `SHALL`, `SHALL NOT`, `REQUIRED`

The project will be failed if not follow

### Chapter 2

- [ ] (2.5) The request and the response must follow the same limitation
    - Max URI length
    - Max header length
    - Max body length
    - Test case:
        - the server need to able to response
            1. request with super long URI
            2. request with super long header
            3. request with super long body
        - It's not easy to test both side followed the same limitation
- [x] (2.6) Defined the format of request line
    - HTTP-version  = HTTP-name "/" DIGIT "." DIGIT
    - HTTP-name     = %x48.54.54.50 ; "HTTP", case-sensitive
    - Test case:
        - Any random shit which not follow the format need to return `400`

### Chapter 3

- [ ] (3) Request line format
    - request-line = `method SP request-target SP HTTP-version CRLF`
    - Test case:
        - Any random shit which not follow the format need to return `400`
- [ ] (3) can not have space between start-line and the first header field. 
    - Test case:
        - If any line in header begins with leading whitespace, the entire line must either be completely ignored, or the request must be invalidated and `400` returned.
- [ ] (3) The message needs to be parsed as a sequence of octets (raw bytes) so for us `unsigned char`. It needs to be interpreted as ASCII and never as Unicode, because some unicode characters are encoded in sequences of multiple bytes. Then it could be that we falsely interpret a `\n` (which is an important delimiter) as part of a Unicode sequence and we delimit wrongly.
    - Test case: TBD - we would need to create a `Response Splitting` attack
        - an attacker can send encoded data within some parameter of the request that is later decoded and echoed within any of the response header fields of the response. If the decoded data is crafted to look like the response has ended and a subsequent response has begun, the response has been split and the content within the apparent second response is controlled by the attacker. (9.4)
- [ ] (3.1.1 or detail in RFC7231_6.5.12) request-target longer than any URI it wishes to parse MUST respond with a `414`
- [ ] (3.1.2) Status line format
    - status-line = `HTTP-version SP status-code SP reason-phrase CRLF`
    - status-code    = 3DIGIT
    - reason-phrase  = *( HTAB / SP / VCHAR / obs-text )
    - Test case:
        - random white space
        - double white space
        - CRLF Injection?
- [ ] (3.2) Each header field consists of a case-insensitive field name followed by a colon (":"), optional leading whitespace, the field value, and optional trailing whitespace.
    - header-field = field-name ":" OWS field-value OWS
    - Test case:
        - test without ":"
        - test without field-value
        - test without field-name
        - test without field-value and field-name
        - Those case is same thing, all are valid
            - `Host: example.com`
            - `Host:example.com`
            - `Host:example.com `
            - `Host: example.com `
            - `Host:            example.com          `
        - Those case are invaild, return `400`
            - `  Host: example.com`
            - `Host : example.com`
- [ ] (3.2.2) A server MUST NOT apply a request to the target resource until the entire request header section is received, since later header fields might include conditionals, authentication credentials, or deliberately misleading duplicate header fields that would impact request processing.
    - Test case:
        - What does this mean???
- [ ] (3.2.4) A server MUST reject any received request message that contains whitespace between a header field-name and colon with a response code of 400 (Bad Request).
    - Test case:
        - `Host : google.com` => need to return `400`
- [ ] (3.2.5) A server that receives a request header field, or set of fields, larger than it wishes to process MUST respond with an appropriate `4xx`
    - Test case:
        - super long header value => `413`
- [ ] (3.2.6) Header format
    - ```
      tchar          = "!" / "#" / "$" / "%" / "&" / "'" / "*"
                    / "+" / "-" / "." / "^" / "_" / "`" / "|" / "~"
                    / DIGIT / ALPHA
                    ; any VCHAR, except delimiters
      ```
    - Test case:
        - `AAA AA: 1234` => need to return `400`
- [ ] (3.2.6) The backslash octet ("\\") can be used as a single-octet quoting mechanism within quoted-string and comment constructs. Recipients that process the value of a quoted-string MUST handle a quoted-pair as if it were replaced by the octet following the backslash.
    - Test case:
        - `\"` should be replaced by `"`
- [ ] (3.3.1) A recipient MUST be able to parse the chunked transfer coding because it plays a crucial role in framing messages when the payload body size is not known in advance.
- [ ] (3.3.1) A server MUST NOT send a Transfer-Encoding header field in any
response with a status code of 1xx (Informational) or 204 (No
Content). (3.3.2) we must also not include Content-Length header field in these headers.
    - Test case:
        - `1xx` and `204` headers should **not** have a Transfer-Encoding or Content-Length field
- [ ] (3.3.1) A server MUST NOT send a response containing Transfer-Encoding unless the corresponding request indicates HTTP/1.1 (or later).
    - This means: since according to `ch2.6`, we should reply to a 1.0 request in 1.1, we cannot use chunking in that case. So we need to have some content length limit and return `4xx`
- [ ] (3.3.2) Any Content-Length field value greater than or equal to zero is valid. Since there is no predefined limit to the length of a payload, a recipient MUST anticipate potentially large decimal numerals and prevent parsing errors due to integer conversion overflows (Section 9.3).
    - Test case: 
        - Content-Length field value of `-1` should be invalid. Value of `INT_MAX + 1` should be ??. We can set a limit for numbers and return `413` if exceeded.
- [ ] (3.3.2) A sender MUST NOT send a Content-Length header field in any message that contains a Transfer-Encoding header field.
    - Test case:
        - In all of the test case with Transfer-Encoding we could check if it has Content-Length header then it's failed (but it's not related to the status code); Otherwise the response need to include Content-Length
- [ ] (3.3.2) the recipient MUST either reject the message as invalid or replace the duplicated field-values with a single valid Content-Length field containing that decimal value prior to determining the message body length or forwarding the message.
    - Test case:
        1. Either return `400` or choose one of them
        - ```
            Content-Length: 0
            Content-Length: 0
          ```
        2. Either return `400` or take the value before comma.
        - ```
            Content-Length: 42,42
          ```
       
- [ ] (3.3.3)  If a Transfer-Encoding header field is present in a request and the chunked transfer coding is not the final encoding, the message body length cannot be determined reliably; the server MUST respond with the 400 (Bad Request) status code and then close the connection.
    - Test case:
        - If Transfer-Encoding body format is incorrect, then need to return `400`and close the connection
- [ ] (3.3.3) If a message is received with both a Transfer-Encoding and a Content-Length header field, the Transfer-Encoding overrides the Content-Length. -> Transfer-Encoding's priority > than Content-Length.
- [ ] (3.3.3) Any 2xx (Successful) response to a CONNECT request implies that the connection will become a tunnel immediately after the empty line that concludes the header fields. A client MUST ignore any Content-Length or Transfer-Encoding header fields received in such a message.
    - Test case:
        - 204 No Content
        ```
        // request
        GET /nocontent HTTP/1.1
        Host: example.com
        
        // response
        HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
        Date: Mon, 27 Sep 2024 12:00:00 GMT
        Server: ExampleServer
        ```
- [ ] (3.3.3) If a message is received without Transfer-Encoding and with either multiple Content-Length header fields having differing field-values or a single Content-Length header field having an invalid value, then the message framing is invalid and the recipient MUST treat it as an unrecoverable error.
    - Test case:
        - 1. Need to return `400`
        ```
            Content-Length: 0
            Content-Length: 42
        ```
        - 2. It should be valid (TODO: double-comfirm with nginx, TBD)
        ```
        // request
            Transfer-Encoding: chunked
            Content-Length: 0
            Content-Length: 42
            
        // response
        HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
        Content-Type: text/plain
        Connection: close

        Invalid request: conflicting Content-Length and Transfer-Encoding headers.
        ```
- [ ] (3.3.3) A server MAY reject a request that contains a message body but not a Content-Length by responding with 411 (Length Required).
    - Test case:
        - This case need to return `411`
        ```
        POST /example HTTP/1.1
        Host: example.com

        This is a body without a Content-Length header
        ```


### Chapter 4

- [ ] (4) A recipient MUST be able to parse and decode the chunked transfer coding.
- [ ] (4) All transfer-coding names are case-insensitive.
- [ ] (4.1.1) A recipient MUST ignore unrecognized chunk extensions. A server ought to limit the total length of chunk extensions received in a request to an amount reasonable for the services provided, in the same way that it applies length limitations and timeouts for other parts of a message, and generate an appropriate `4xx` (Client Error) response if that amount is exceeded.
- [ ] (4.1.2) A recipient MUST ignore (or consider as an error) any fields that are forbidden to be sent as a trailer for chunks
    - Test case:
        - Ignore everything after 0
        ```
        POST /upload HTTP/1.1
        Host: example.com
        Transfer-Encoding: chunked
        Trailer: Content-MD5
        Content-Type: text/plain

        5
        Hello
        6
         World
        0
        Content-MD5: Q2hlY2sgSW50ZWdyaXR5IQ==
        
        -----
        POST /upload HTTP/1.1
        Host: example.com
        Transfer-Encoding: chunked
        Trailer: Content-MD5
        Content-Type: text/plain

        5
        Hello
        -----
        POST /upload HTTP/1.1
        Host: example.com
        Transfer-Encoding: chunked
        Trailer: Content-MD5
        Content-Type: text/plain

        6
         World
        0
        ```


### Chapter 5


- [ ] (5.3.2) a server MUST accept the absolute-form in requests
    - Test case:
        - absolute-form need to be handle normally, return `200`
        ```
        GET http://webserver_container/www/index.html HTTP/1.1
        ```
- [ ] (5.4) A server MUST respond with a 400 (Bad Request) status code to any HTTP/1.1 request message that lacks a Host header field and to any request message that contains more than one Host header field or a Host header field with an invalid field-value.
    - Test case:
        - If the request protocol is HTTP1.1, then the `Host` is needed. If not return `400`
        - If more than 1 `Host` field also need to be consider `400`
        - If the request protocol is HTTP1.0 and the server only support HTTP1.1 then consider with the `ch2.6` then, The server need to reject and return `400`
        - TBD: We need to look up how an invalid field value looks like
- [ ] (5.5) Once the effective request URI has been constructed, an origin server needs to decide whether or not to provide service for that URI via the connection in which the request was received.
    - That means if something not OK either `400` or `404` are fine. We decide to return `404` because for us if the request message pass our request analyzer than it's not bad request any more. But consider the security to avoid be accessed out of location folder, we should check if the target-host and header-host are consistent directly.
    - Test case:
        - inconsistent `request-target` and `Host`, we decide to return `404`
        ```
        GET http://www.google.com HTTP/1.1
        Host: example.com
        ```
        
### Chapter 6

- [ ] (6.1) Connection options (Connection header field values) are case-insensitive.
    - Test case:
        - `Connection: CLoSe` <-- should work
        - `Connection: KEEP-alIve` <-- should work
- [ ] (6.1) A server that does not support persistent connections MUST send the "close" connection option in every response message that does not have a 1xx (Informational) status code.
    - Test case:
        - Depend on the request connection type, the response builder need to add correspond into response header 
- [ ] (6.3) A server MUST read the entire request message body or close the connection after sending its response, since otherwise the remaining data on a persistent connection would be misinterpreted as the next request.
    - If a POST request in chunked encoding and one of the chunk is invalid, then the server need to return `400` and close the connection
    - Test case:
        - Upload with invalid chunk, the file should not be uploaded and need to return `400`

- [ ] (6.3.2) A client that supports persistent connections MAY "pipeline" its requests (i.e., send multiple requests without waiting for each response). A server MAY process a sequence of pipelined requests in parallel if they all have safe methods but it MUST send the corresponding responses in the same order that the requests were received.
    - We need to decide if we allow pipelined requests. If we do, then we must send the responses in the same order (we need to figure that out). If we don't, then we need to detect this pipelining (TBD: how to do that?) and intercept it somehow.

- [ ] (6.6) A server that receives a "close" connection option MUST initiate a close of the connection (see below) after it sends the final response to the request that contained "close". The server SHOULD send a "close" connection option in its final response on that connection. The server MUST NOT process any further requests received on that connection.
    - Test case: if `Connection: close` header field is present we must 1. send response 2. the response should contain `Connection: close` header field 3. we must close the connection.
    - Test case II: we should not process anything else after a request with `Connection: close`.

- [ ] (6.6) servers typically close a connection in stages. First, the server performs a half-close by closing only the write side of the read/write connection. The server then continues to read from the connection until it receives a corresponding close by the client, or until the server is reasonably certain that its own TCP stack has received the client’s acknowledgement of the packet(s) containing the server’s last response. Finally, the server fully closes the connection.
    - Test case: ?? (How can we reproduce the TCP reset problem?)
    - BUT: first we close write end. Then we continue to read until we receive the close from client then we also close read end (this is related to first 6.5 SHOULD).

## SHOULD

`SHOULD`, `SHOULD NOT`, `RECOMMENDED`, `NOT RECOMMENDED`

The project might be failed depend on the reasoning which need to be strong


### Chapter 2

- [x] (2.6) HTTP version format: `<major>.<minor>`
    - When you choose how to respond: the **major** version has to be lower than or equal to the one requested, BUT also we choose the highest from these that the server supports.
        - For example: they request 2.0, we support 1.0 and 1.1 --> need to reply 1.1 (smaller than 2.0 but the highest possible)
    - We can also send `505` if we don't support the **major** version. 
    - *"A recipient can assume that a message with a **higher minor version**, when sent to a recipient that has not yet indicated support for that higher version, is sufficiently backwards-compatible to be safely processed by any implementation of **the same major version**."*
        - So if they ask for 1.0, but we can only send 1.1, we should send 1.1 and they should assume it will work
    - Test case (assume we only implement 1.1):
        1. request for 2.0 and 3.0, then behavior and response in 1.1
        2. request for [1.0, 2.0), then behavior and response in 1.1
        3. request for 0.9, then response is `400`
        5. request for (2.0, 3.0), then `505`
        6. request for (3.0, 9.9), then `505`
        7. request for something stupid: response is `400`

### Chapter 3

- [ ] (3.1.1) If we get an invalid request-line we should respond with either a `400` (Bad Request) error or a `301` (Moved Permanently) redirect with the request-target properly encoded. We should never try to autocorrect and then proceed on our own (and return `200` for example)
    - Test case: something stupid as input --> both 301 and 400 is okay (this is not the same as redirect from subject)
- [ ] (3.1.1) A server that receives a method longer than any that it implements SHOULD respond with a 501 (Not Implemented) status code
    - We only support GET, POST, DELETE => so the longest should be 6 char
    - Test case:
        - `GEEEEET / HTTP/1.1` need to return `501`
- [ ] (3.1.1) We should support a request line of at least 8000 octets.
    - Test case:
            - request line of 8000 len --> should not be `414`
- [ ] (3.2.1) We should ignore unrecognized header fields.
    - Test case (should be `200`):
        ```
        GET / HTTP/1.1
        Host: www.google.com
        AAA: www.google.com
        Connection: close
        ```
- [ ] (3.3.1) A server that receives a request message with a transfer coding it does not understand SHOULD respond with `501` (Not Implemented).
- [ ] (3.5)  If a client accidentally sends an extra line (just a CRLF) before the actual request, the server shouldn't reject the request or treat it as an error. Instead, it should ignore the empty line and process the following request-line.
    - Test case:
        - the empty lines should be ingnored, and return `200`
        ```
        /r/n
        /r/n
        GET / HTTP/1.1/r/n
        Host: localhost
        ```
- [ ] (3.5) The acceptable whitespace characters include:
        - `SP`: Space (ASCII 32 or %x20)
        - `HTAB`: Horizontal tab (`\t`, ASCII 9 or %x09)
        - `VT`: Vertical tab (ASCII 11 or %x0B)
        - `FF`: Form feed (ASCII 12 or %x0C)
        - `bare CR`: Carriage return (`\r`, without a line feed)
    **BUT**: there are no spaces or valid whitespace separating the elements,             and the server would likely return a 400 (Bad Request):
    - Test case:
        - HTAB and others should also work, only non any of them will be invalid.
        ```
        GET\t/\tHTTP/1.1/r/n
        Host: localhost
        ```
        
### Chapter 4

- [ ] (4.1.2) a server SHOULD NOT generate trailer fields that it believes are necessary for the user agent to receive.
    - Test case: in the server response, if chunked, after 0 length chunk should be nothing.

### Chapter 6

- [ ] (6.3) HTTP implementations SHOULD support persistent connections.
    - Test case:
        - TBD
- [ ] (6.3) If the "close" connection option is present, the connection will not persist after the current response;
    - Test case:
        - TBD
- [ ] (6.3) If close is not present and the received protocol is HTTP/1.1 (or later), the connection will persist after the current response.
    - Means without a "close" the default behavior should be "keep-alive"
    - Test case:
        - TBD

- [ ] (6.3) If the received protocol is HTTP/1.0, if the "keep-alive" connection option is present, the connection will persist after the current response, otherwise (if keep-alive is not present) the connection will close after the current response.
    - We decide to follow the HTTP/1.1 and do the "keep-alive"

- [ ] (6.5) A client or server that wishes to time out SHOULD issue a graceful close on the connection. Implementations SHOULD constantly monitor open connections for a received closure signal and respond to it as appropriate, since prompt closure of both sides of a connection enables allocated system resources to be reclaimed.
    - When we reach the timeout, we should send a response & close the connection. We should monitor `connection` if they want to close. When connection is closed we can free stuff.
    - TBD: How does end of connection signal look like on server side? (maybe just a simple CRLF)

- [ ] (6.5) A server SHOULD sustain persistent connections, when possible, and allow the underlying transport’s flow-control mechanisms to resolve temporary overloads, rather than terminate connections with the expectation that clients will retry.
    - We should never default to closing the connection after sending response & expect client to retry.


## Others (MAY, OPTIONAL)

`MAY`, `OPTIONAL`

We don't give a fuck

- [ ] (6.4) A server might reject traffic that it deems abusive or characteristic of a denial-of-service attack, such as an excessive number of open connections from a single client.
    - TBD: what status code to send?

- [ ] (6.5) A server MAY close the transport connection at any time. For example, a client might have started to send a new request at the same time that the server has decided to close the "idle" connection. From the server’s point of view, the connection is being closed while it was idle, but from the client’s point of view, a request is in progress.
    - We should normally do keep-alive. Example cases when we can close: timeout, abuse of connection, receive `Connection: close`, critical internal failure?

- [ ] (6.7) A server MAY ignore a received `Upgrade` header field if it wishes to continue using the current protocol on that connection.
    - Test case: we receive Upgrade header field saying `Upgrade: HTTP/2.0` but we dont give a fuck, keep version 1.1 (ignore the header field & continue execution even though google sends `400`)
